oxs/OXS.md, before:

# Open Cross-Stitch

The Open Cross-Stitch file format uses XML to store the data.

## `chart`

The file itself begins with an encompassing element called `chart`.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chart>
  <!-- content -->
</chart>
```

This is the only element required for parsing the pattern.
If the file does not contain the `chart` tag, an error should be returned.

It is also recommended to check that the file contains a closing `chart` tag.
That is, we expect the parsing of the pattern to be completed at the closing `chart` tag, not at EOF.

Below is a description of typical sections and their elements that are common in patterns.

### `format`

The first section is optional and is purely informational - just a brief format description.

```xml
<format
  comments01="Designed to allow interchange of basic pattern data between any cross stitch style software"
  comments02="the 'properties' section establishes size, copyright, authorship and software used"
  comments03="The features of each software package varies, but using XML each can pick out the things it can deal with, while ignoring others"
  comments04="The basic items are :"
  comments05="'palette'..a set of colors used in the design: palettecount excludes cloth color, which is item 0"
  comments06="'fullstitches'.. simple crosses"
  comments07="'backstitches'.. lines/objects with a start and end point"
  comments08="(There is a wide variety of ways of treating part stitches, knots, beads and so on.)"
  comments09="Colors are expressed in hex RGB format."
  comments10="Decimal numbers use US/UK format where '.' is the indicator - eg 0.5 is 'half'"
  comments11="For readability, please use words not enumerations"
  comments12="The properties, fullstitches, and backstitches elements should be considered mandatory, even if empty"
  comments13="element and attribute names are always lowercase"
/>
```

### `properties`

This section is optional and defines general pattern properties.
It is recommended to keep this section at the top of the file, as it can be used as a reference for parsing the pattern file.

- `oxsversion`: string - The version of the OXS specification.
  If not specified, we assume that the latest OXS version is used (currently, `1.0`).
- `software`: string - Specifies the software used to write the pattern file.
  Can be used to indicate app-specific elements and attributes.
- `software_version`: string - Specifies the software version used to write the pattern file.
  Can be used to indicate app/version-specific elements and attributes.
- `chartheight`: integer - Defaults to `100`.
- `chartwidth`: integer - Defaults to `100`.
- `charttitle`: string - Defaults to the name of the file.
- `author`: string.
- `copyright`: string.
- `instructions`: string.
- `stitchesperinch`: number - Specifies the number of stitches per inch of cloth/fabric.
- `stitchesperinch_y`: number - Same as `stitchesperinch`, but for vertical axis.
  Can be used for non-square cloth/fabric.
  If not specified, the value from `stitchesperinch` should be used.
- `palettecount`: integer - The number of palette colors other than cloth/fabric.

All of these attributes are optional.
However, we recommend that you specify at least `oxsversion` for consistency, and `chartwidth` and `chartheight` for correct display.

If some of the attributes are not specified but are required by a particular software, they should be replaced by the default value of that software.

```xml
<properties
  oxsversion="1.0"
  software="Ursa Software"
  software_version="2021"
  chartheight="73"
  chartwidth="69"
  charttitle="Piggies"
  author="Unknown"
  copyright="by Ursa Software"
  instructions="Enjoy the embroidery process!"
  stitchesperinch="14"
  stitchesperinch_y="14"
  palettecount="7"
/>
```

### `palette`

Holds `palette_item` elements.

If the `palette` tag is missing or empty, this means that the palette is empty.

During parsing, you can use `properties.palettecount`, if specified, to properly handle the `palette`.
However, the only source of truth about a palette is the `palette` itself.

Note that the size of the palette is not restricted and can contain any number of `palette_item`s.

#### `palette_item`

Defines color information in the palette and can represent a thread, bead, or any other material color.

- `index`: integer.
- `number`: string - Specifies both the color brand and the color number (for example, `DMC 310`).

  In Ursa, they are separated by four spaces.
  In other programs, they can be separated by a single space.

  In any case, the last part of the string splitted by a space should be considered the number (we expect the number to be a solid string), and everything before it should be considered the brand.

- `name`: string.
- `color`: hex string - Defaults to `FFFFFF` (white) for cloth/fabric and `FF00FF` (magenta) for materials.
- `printcolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `blendcolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `comments`: string.
- `strands`: integer.
- `symbol`: integer or string - Specifies the symbol used to graphically represent the color.
  It can be a decimal number representing a UTF-8 [code point](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Code_point) or a string representing the actual character.
- `symbol_courier` _by MiniStitch (UrsaSoftware_): string - Specifies the actual symbol character (for example, `A`).
- `bsstrands`: integer.
- `bscolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `fontname` _by XSPro Platinum (DP Software)_: string - Specifies the font family (for example, `Cross Stitch Pro Platinum`) used to draw symbols of this color.

All of these attributes except `color` are optional.
If the `color` attribute is missing, the application should replace it with the default color (see notes above) and notify the user about it so that they can fix the issue later.

The `palette_item` element with index `0` (usually, the first one) always defines the cloth/fabric color.
If the `index` attribute is not specified, the first `palette_item` in the palette is assumed to define the cloth/fabric color.

```xml
<!-- The element with index 0 defines the cloth/fabric color. -->
<palette_item
  index="0"
  number="cloth"
  name="cloth"
  color="FFFFFF"
  printcolor="FFFFFF"
  blendcolor="nil"
  comments=""
  strands="2"
  symbol="100"
  bsstrands="2"
  bscolor="FFFFFF"
/>

<!-- Other elements define the material colors. -->
<palette_item
  index="1"
  number="DMC    310"
  name="Black"
  color="2C3225"
  printcolor="000000"
  blendcolor="nil"
  comments=""
  strands="2"
  symbol="100"
  bsstrands="1"
  bscolor="2C3225"
/>
```

### General Processing of Stitches

Before we start describing stitch sections, it is worth defining how we handle all stitch objects in general.
The following rules apply to all stitch objects.

In general, all stitch objects have coordinates (`x` and `y`) and an index of the palette item (`palindex`).
Some stitch objects can have multiple instances of these properties (for example, `x1` and `x2` or `palindex1` and `palindex2`).

We consider a stitch to be "invalid" and do not process, store or display it in such cases:

1. If any stitch coordinate is missing or invalid (i.e., it cannot be converted from a string type to a numeric type).

   However, coordinates that are outside the pattern are considered correct.
   For example, if the size of the pattern is not specified in the `properties` section, some stitches may appear outside the pattern.
   We need to process and store such stitches and let the user process them (for example, increase the size of the pattern or remove extra stitches).

2. If the `palindex` attribute is set to `0` (i.e., the stitch refers to a cloth/fabric color).

   Obviously, you should not store such stitches in the pattern file.

3. If the stitch refers to a non-existent palette item.

### `fullstitches`

Holds `stitch` elements.

If the `fullstitches` tag is missing or empty, this means that the pattern does not contain stitches.

#### `stitch`

Defines full stitch information.

- `x`: integer.
- `y`: integer.
- `palindex`: integer.

```xml
<!-- This stitch is "empty" because it uses the cloth/fabric color. -->
<stitch x="1" y="1" palindex="0" />

<!-- These are normal stitches. -->
<stitch x="2" y="2" palindex="1" />
<stitch x="3" y="3" palindex="2" />
<stitch x="4" y="4" palindex="3" />
```

### `partstitches`

Holds `partstitch` elements.

#### `partstitch`

Defines part stitch information.

> As in the case of full stitches, only actual stitches should be stored.

| Property    | Type    | Note                |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------- |
| `x`         | integer |                     |
| `y`         | integer |                     |
| `palindex1` | integer | Colour on the left  |
| `palindex2` | integer | Colour on the right |
| `direction` | integer |                     |

When the direction 1, the result is bottom-left for the `palindex1` and top-right for the `palindex2`.
When the direction 2, the result is top-left for the `palindex1` and bottom-right for the `palindex2`.
In both cases, the stitch is always in the forward direction.

When the direction 3, the result is `/` (forward).
When the direction 4, the result is `\` (backward).
In these cases, the stitch is considered to be the Gobelin stitch.

```xml
<partstitch x="10" y="30" palindex1="7" palindex2="0" direction="2" />
<partstitch x="11" y="43" palindex1="5" palindex2="0" direction="1" />
<partstitch x="11" y="43" palindex1="7" palindex2="0" direction="2" />
```

### `backstitches` (occurs once)

This element holds n `backstitch` entries.

#### `backstitch` (occurs n times as children of `backstitches`)

| Property     | Type    |
| ------------ | ------- |
| `x1`         | number  |
| `y1`         | number  |
| `x2`         | number  |
| `y2`         | number  |
| `palindex`   | integer |
| `objecttype` | string  |
| `sequence`   | integer |

```xml
<backstitch x1="68" x2="68" y1="62" y2="63" palindex="3" objecttype="backstitch" sequence="0" />
<backstitch x1="32" x2="31" y1="7" y2="7" palindex="1" objecttype="daisy" sequence="0"/>
<backstitch x1="27.5" x2="36" y1="11.5" y2="10" palindex="1" objecttype="bugle" sequence="0"/>
```

### `ornaments_inc_knots_and_beads` (occurs once)

This element holds n `object` entries.

#### `object` (occurs n times as children of `ornaments_inc_knots_and_beads`)

The `object` entry describes anything that can be added by different software.

| Property     | Type    |
| ------------ | ------- |
| `x1`         | number  |
| `y1`         | number  |
| `palindex`   | integer |
| `objecttype` | string  |

```xml
<object x1="2" y1="3.5" palindex="1" objecttype="fullcross"/>
<object x1="5" y1="6.5" palindex="1" objecttype="4x4"/>
<object x1="8" y1="12" palindex="1" objecttype="minikey"/>
```

<details>
<summary>UrsaSoftware's list of object</summary>

In a file created by Ursa Software's MacStitch or WinStitch applications, the current possible values of "object type" are as follows: all have a location, and the object type determines the size and shape.
Other software suppliers will have different object types that are not on this list.

- `knot` - a french knot
- `bead` - a simple bead of about 2.5 mm
- `quarter` - a quarter stitch
- `verticalhalf` - a half stitch which is taller than it is wide - half the width of a cross
- `horizontalhalf` - a half stitch which is wider than it is tall - half the height of a cross
- `fullcross` - a normal cross stitch, but placed anywhere
- `3x2` - a cross stitch, but 1.5 times wider than a normal one
- `2x3` - a cross stitch, but 1.5 times taller than a normal one
- `3x3”`- a cross stitch, but 1.5 times taller and wider than a normal one
- `4x4` - a cross stitch, but 2 times taller and wider than a normal one
- `minikey` - a color blob or symbol plus the thread number
- `4x2` - a stitch, but 2 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `6x2` - a stitch, but 3 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `8x2`- a stitch, but 4 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `10x2` - a stitch, but 5 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `12x2` - a stitch, but 6 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `14x2` - a stitch, but 7 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `16x2` - a stitch, but 8 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `bead2mm` - a 2mm bead
- `bead3mm` - a 3mm bead
- `bead5mm` - a 5mm bead
- `bead6mm`
- `bead8mm`
- `bead10mm`
- `bead12mm`
- `button6mm`
- `button12mm` - buttons
- `button8mm`
- `button10mm`
- `button20mm`
- `sequin6mm`
- `topleftlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at top left corner
- `toprightlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at top right corner
- `botleftlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at bottom left corner
- `botrightlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at bottom right corner
- `topleftwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at top left corner
- `toprightwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at top right corner
- `botleftwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at bottom left corner
- `botrightwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at bottom right corner
- `queen2x2` - a diamond shape , width 2 normal stitches
- `queen3x3` - a diamond shape , width 3 normal stitches
- `queen4x4` - a diamond shape , width 4 normal stitches
- `queen5x5` - a diamond shape , width 5 normal stitches

</details>

### `commentboxes` (occurs once)

This element holds n `commentbox` entries.

#### `commentbox` (occurs n times as children of `commentboxes`)

| Property    | Type    |
| ----------- | ------- |
| `boxwidth`  | integer |
| `boxheight` | integer |
| `boxleft`   | integer |
| `boxtop`    | integer |
| `boxwords`  | string  |

```xml
<commentbox boxheight="2" boxwidth="34" boxleft="18" boxtop="3" boxwords="This is a comment" />
```

Commit message:

describe a purpose of this specification

oxs/OXS.md, after:

# OXS (Open Cross-Stitch)

OXS is an open file format for cross-stitch patterns that was created by [UrsaSoftware](https://ursasoftware.com).

Since OXS is built on XML, it is simple to examine its structure and is highly extensible, allowing users to add their own attributes and define custom sections and elements.

This document offers a detailed specification of the OXS format based on the official version, along with a thorough explanation of each section and element, outline of the usage of each property, description of the expected behavior for developers, collection of application-specific items, and additional examples.

You can find a practical OXS parser [here](https://github.com/embroidery-space/embroidery-studio/blob/main/src-tauri/src/core/parsers/oxs.rs).

## `chart`

The file itself begins with an encompassing element called `chart`.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chart>
  <!-- content -->
</chart>
```

This is the only element required for parsing the pattern.
If the file does not contain the `chart` tag, an error should be returned.

It is also recommended to check that the file contains a closing `chart` tag.
That is, we expect the parsing of the pattern to be completed at the closing `chart` tag, not at EOF.

Below is a description of typical sections and their elements that are common in patterns.

### `format`

The first section is optional and is purely informational - just a brief format description.

```xml
<format
  comments01="Designed to allow interchange of basic pattern data between any cross stitch style software"
  comments02="the 'properties' section establishes size, copyright, authorship and software used"
  comments03="The features of each software package varies, but using XML each can pick out the things it can deal with, while ignoring others"
  comments04="The basic items are :"
  comments05="'palette'..a set of colors used in the design: palettecount excludes cloth color, which is item 0"
  comments06="'fullstitches'.. simple crosses"
  comments07="'backstitches'.. lines/objects with a start and end point"
  comments08="(There is a wide variety of ways of treating part stitches, knots, beads and so on.)"
  comments09="Colors are expressed in hex RGB format."
  comments10="Decimal numbers use US/UK format where '.' is the indicator - eg 0.5 is 'half'"
  comments11="For readability, please use words not enumerations"
  comments12="The properties, fullstitches, and backstitches elements should be considered mandatory, even if empty"
  comments13="element and attribute names are always lowercase"
/>
```

### `properties`

This section is optional and defines general pattern properties.
It is recommended to keep this section at the top of the file, as it can be used as a reference for parsing the pattern file.

- `oxsversion`: string - The version of the OXS specification.
  If not specified, we assume that the latest OXS version is used (currently, `1.0`).
- `software`: string - Specifies the software used to write the pattern file.
  Can be used to indicate app-specific elements and attributes.
- `software_version`: string - Specifies the software version used to write the pattern file.
  Can be used to indicate app/version-specific elements and attributes.
- `chartheight`: integer - Defaults to `100`.
- `chartwidth`: integer - Defaults to `100`.
- `charttitle`: string - Defaults to the name of the file.
- `author`: string.
- `copyright`: string.
- `instructions`: string.
- `stitchesperinch`: number - Specifies the number of stitches per inch of cloth/fabric.
- `stitchesperinch_y`: number - Same as `stitchesperinch`, but for vertical axis.
  Can be used for non-square cloth/fabric.
  If not specified, the value from `stitchesperinch` should be used.
- `palettecount`: integer - The number of palette colors other than cloth/fabric.

All of these attributes are optional.
However, we recommend that you specify at least `oxsversion` for consistency, and `chartwidth` and `chartheight` for correct display.

If some of the attributes are not specified but are required by a particular software, they should be replaced by the default value of that software.

```xml
<properties
  oxsversion="1.0"
  software="Ursa Software"
  software_version="2021"
  chartheight="73"
  chartwidth="69"
  charttitle="Piggies"
  author="Unknown"
  copyright="by Ursa Software"
  instructions="Enjoy the embroidery process!"
  stitchesperinch="14"
  stitchesperinch_y="14"
  palettecount="7"
/>
```

### `palette`

Holds `palette_item` elements.

If the `palette` tag is missing or empty, this means that the palette is empty.

During parsing, you can use `properties.palettecount`, if specified, to properly handle the `palette`.
However, the only source of truth about a palette is the `palette` itself.

Note that the size of the palette is not restricted and can contain any number of `palette_item`s.

#### `palette_item`

Defines color information in the palette and can represent a thread, bead, or any other material color.

- `index`: integer.
- `number`: string - Specifies both the color brand and the color number (for example, `DMC 310`).

  In Ursa, they are separated by four spaces.
  In other programs, they can be separated by a single space.

  In any case, the last part of the string splitted by a space should be considered the number (we expect the number to be a solid string), and everything before it should be considered the brand.

- `name`: string.
- `color`: hex string - Defaults to `FFFFFF` (white) for cloth/fabric and `FF00FF` (magenta) for materials.
- `printcolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `blendcolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `comments`: string.
- `strands`: integer.
- `symbol`: integer or string - Specifies the symbol used to graphically represent the color.
  It can be a decimal number representing a UTF-8 [code point](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Code_point) or a string representing the actual character.
- `symbol_courier` _by MiniStitch (UrsaSoftware_): string - Specifies the actual symbol character (for example, `A`).
- `bsstrands`: integer.
- `bscolor`: hex string or `nil`.
- `fontname` _by XSPro Platinum (DP Software)_: string - Specifies the font family (for example, `Cross Stitch Pro Platinum`) used to draw symbols of this color.

All of these attributes except `color` are optional.
If the `color` attribute is missing, the application should replace it with the default color (see notes above) and notify the user about it so that they can fix the issue later.

The `palette_item` element with index `0` (usually, the first one) always defines the cloth/fabric color.
If the `index` attribute is not specified, the first `palette_item` in the palette is assumed to define the cloth/fabric color.

```xml
<!-- The element with index 0 defines the cloth/fabric color. -->
<palette_item
  index="0"
  number="cloth"
  name="cloth"
  color="FFFFFF"
  printcolor="FFFFFF"
  blendcolor="nil"
  comments=""
  strands="2"
  symbol="100"
  bsstrands="2"
  bscolor="FFFFFF"
/>

<!-- Other elements define the material colors. -->
<palette_item
  index="1"
  number="DMC    310"
  name="Black"
  color="2C3225"
  printcolor="000000"
  blendcolor="nil"
  comments=""
  strands="2"
  symbol="100"
  bsstrands="1"
  bscolor="2C3225"
/>
```

### General Processing of Stitches

Before we start describing stitch sections, it is worth defining how we handle all stitch objects in general.
The following rules apply to all stitch objects.

In general, all stitch objects have coordinates (`x` and `y`) and an index of the palette item (`palindex`).
Some stitch objects can have multiple instances of these properties (for example, `x1` and `x2` or `palindex1` and `palindex2`).

We consider a stitch to be "invalid" and do not process, store or display it in such cases:

1. If any stitch coordinate is missing or invalid (i.e., it cannot be converted from a string type to a numeric type).

   However, coordinates that are outside the pattern are considered correct.
   For example, if the size of the pattern is not specified in the `properties` section, some stitches may appear outside the pattern.
   We need to process and store such stitches and let the user process them (for example, increase the size of the pattern or remove extra stitches).

2. If the `palindex` attribute is set to `0` (i.e., the stitch refers to a cloth/fabric color).

   Obviously, you should not store such stitches in the pattern file.

3. If the stitch refers to a non-existent palette item.

### `fullstitches`

Holds `stitch` elements.

If the `fullstitches` tag is missing or empty, this means that the pattern does not contain stitches.

#### `stitch`

Defines full stitch information.

- `x`: integer.
- `y`: integer.
- `palindex`: integer.

```xml
<!-- This stitch is "empty" because it uses the cloth/fabric color. -->
<stitch x="1" y="1" palindex="0" />

<!-- These are normal stitches. -->
<stitch x="2" y="2" palindex="1" />
<stitch x="3" y="3" palindex="2" />
<stitch x="4" y="4" palindex="3" />
```

### `partstitches`

Holds `partstitch` elements.

#### `partstitch`

Defines part stitch information.

> As in the case of full stitches, only actual stitches should be stored.

| Property    | Type    | Note                |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------- |
| `x`         | integer |                     |
| `y`         | integer |                     |
| `palindex1` | integer | Colour on the left  |
| `palindex2` | integer | Colour on the right |
| `direction` | integer |                     |

When the direction 1, the result is bottom-left for the `palindex1` and top-right for the `palindex2`.
When the direction 2, the result is top-left for the `palindex1` and bottom-right for the `palindex2`.
In both cases, the stitch is always in the forward direction.

When the direction 3, the result is `/` (forward).
When the direction 4, the result is `\` (backward).
In these cases, the stitch is considered to be the Gobelin stitch.

```xml
<partstitch x="10" y="30" palindex1="7" palindex2="0" direction="2" />
<partstitch x="11" y="43" palindex1="5" palindex2="0" direction="1" />
<partstitch x="11" y="43" palindex1="7" palindex2="0" direction="2" />
```

### `backstitches` (occurs once)

This element holds n `backstitch` entries.

#### `backstitch` (occurs n times as children of `backstitches`)

| Property     | Type    |
| ------------ | ------- |
| `x1`         | number  |
| `y1`         | number  |
| `x2`         | number  |
| `y2`         | number  |
| `palindex`   | integer |
| `objecttype` | string  |
| `sequence`   | integer |

```xml
<backstitch x1="68" x2="68" y1="62" y2="63" palindex="3" objecttype="backstitch" sequence="0" />
<backstitch x1="32" x2="31" y1="7" y2="7" palindex="1" objecttype="daisy" sequence="0"/>
<backstitch x1="27.5" x2="36" y1="11.5" y2="10" palindex="1" objecttype="bugle" sequence="0"/>
```

### `ornaments_inc_knots_and_beads` (occurs once)

This element holds n `object` entries.

#### `object` (occurs n times as children of `ornaments_inc_knots_and_beads`)

The `object` entry describes anything that can be added by different software.

| Property     | Type    |
| ------------ | ------- |
| `x1`         | number  |
| `y1`         | number  |
| `palindex`   | integer |
| `objecttype` | string  |

```xml
<object x1="2" y1="3.5" palindex="1" objecttype="fullcross"/>
<object x1="5" y1="6.5" palindex="1" objecttype="4x4"/>
<object x1="8" y1="12" palindex="1" objecttype="minikey"/>
```

<details>
<summary>UrsaSoftware's list of object</summary>

In a file created by Ursa Software's MacStitch or WinStitch applications, the current possible values of "object type" are as follows: all have a location, and the object type determines the size and shape.
Other software suppliers will have different object types that are not on this list.

- `knot` - a french knot
- `bead` - a simple bead of about 2.5 mm
- `quarter` - a quarter stitch
- `verticalhalf` - a half stitch which is taller than it is wide - half the width of a cross
- `horizontalhalf` - a half stitch which is wider than it is tall - half the height of a cross
- `fullcross` - a normal cross stitch, but placed anywhere
- `3x2` - a cross stitch, but 1.5 times wider than a normal one
- `2x3` - a cross stitch, but 1.5 times taller than a normal one
- `3x3”`- a cross stitch, but 1.5 times taller and wider than a normal one
- `4x4` - a cross stitch, but 2 times taller and wider than a normal one
- `minikey` - a color blob or symbol plus the thread number
- `4x2` - a stitch, but 2 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `6x2` - a stitch, but 3 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `8x2`- a stitch, but 4 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `10x2` - a stitch, but 5 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `12x2` - a stitch, but 6 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `14x2` - a stitch, but 7 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `16x2` - a stitch, but 8 times wider than a normal one, used for knitting
- `bead2mm` - a 2mm bead
- `bead3mm` - a 3mm bead
- `bead5mm` - a 5mm bead
- `bead6mm`
- `bead8mm`
- `bead10mm`
- `bead12mm`
- `button6mm`
- `button12mm` - buttons
- `button8mm`
- `button10mm`
- `button20mm`
- `sequin6mm`
- `topleftlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at top left corner
- `toprightlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at top right corner
- `botleftlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at bottom left corner
- `botrightlongtriangle` - a triangle 1 wide, 2 tall, at bottom right corner
- `topleftwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at top left corner
- `toprightwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at top right corner
- `botleftwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at bottom left corner
- `botrightwidetriangle` - a triangle 2 wide, 1 tall, at bottom right corner
- `queen2x2` - a diamond shape , width 2 normal stitches
- `queen3x3` - a diamond shape , width 3 normal stitches
- `queen4x4` - a diamond shape , width 4 normal stitches
- `queen5x5` - a diamond shape , width 5 normal stitches

</details>

### `commentboxes` (occurs once)

This element holds n `commentbox` entries.

#### `commentbox` (occurs n times as children of `commentboxes`)

| Property    | Type    |
| ----------- | ------- |
| `boxwidth`  | integer |
| `boxheight` | integer |
| `boxleft`   | integer |
| `boxtop`    | integer |
| `boxwords`  | string  |

```xml
<commentbox boxheight="2" boxwidth="34" boxleft="18" boxtop="3" boxwords="This is a comment" />
```
